					     
					    Assignment No 01

					Topics in S.E II(DevOps)

					Submitted By: Azka Masood
					Registration Number: SP18-BSE-023
		 			Section: BSE-8A
					Submitted to: Sir Zeeshan Arshad

Question 1: What is cloud computing?

Answer: Cloud computing is the delivery of hosting services that are provided to a client over the Internet. Cloud 
	computing is a model for enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing 
	resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released 
	with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.

Question 2: What are the different types of cloud?

Answer: There are four different types of cloud:
	1. Public Cloud:
		Public clouds are cloud environments typically created from IT infrastructure not owned by the end user. 
		Some of the largest public cloud providers include Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud, IBM Cloud,
		and Microsoft Azure.
	2. Private Cloud:
		Private clouds are loosely defined as cloud environments solely dedicated to a single end user or group. 
		All clouds become private clouds when the underlying IT infrastructure is dedicated to a single customer 
		with completely isolated access
	3. Community Cloud:
		The cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has 
		shared concerns (e.g., mission, security requirements, policy, and compliance considerations).
	4. Hybrid Cloud:
		Hybrid cloud combine public clouds with private clouds to allow the two platforms to interact seamlessly. 
		Recommended for businesses balancing big data analutics with strict data privacy regulations.

Question 3: What are the cloud service models?

Answer: Cloud services are infrastructure, platforms, or software that are hosted by third-party providers and made 
	available to users through the internet. There are 3 main types of as-a-Service solutions: IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS.
	1. Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS):
		IaaS means a cloud service provider manages the infrastructure for you—the actual servers, network, 
		virtualization, and data storage—through an internet connection.
	2. Platform as a Service (PaaS):
		PaaS means the hardware and an application-software platform are provided and managed by an outside 
		cloud service provider, but the user handles the apps running on top of the platform and the data the app 
		relies on.
	3. Software as a Service (SaaS):
		Software-as-a-service (SaaS) is a method for delivering on-demand software applications through Cloud on a 
		subscription basis. A CSP takes care of managing the Cloud infrastructure and offers SaaS applications over 
		the internet to a user that are accessible through a web browser.